Skeleton for blog post - r-universe interview (#563)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2023-05-26-r-universe-stars-4/index.md

By using standards and having packages that can solve the reading, embedding and writing of all the data involved in the process, researchers don't need to know how many different formats work, or communicate with many different research teams, in order to do this kind of work.  

> This allows an individual researcher to run a whole ensemble models. "Just a couple of years ago analyzing multi-models was not something that was accessible to individual researchers" NAME? explains.  

Author: ```suggestion
This allows an individual researcher to run a whole ensemble models. "Just a couple of years ago analyzing multi-models was not something that was accessible to individual researchers" Michael explains.  
```

An example of this practice is the project they are developing with Brooklyn National Laboratory, where they are working on NASA carbon monitoring that uses a data simulation system. In this case, two students are developing their PhDs and postdocs.

## A tree that keeps growing 

In this work structure, one of the main objectives is to become a kind of "Hacker" that solves problems in a more general sense that can then be applied in other contexts and in other areas. According to Rob, knowledge can be sustained and grow thanks to the research developed across multiple institutions including University of Illinois, Boston University, University of Arizona, University of Wisconsin and Brookhaven National Laboratory. 

> In relation to the experience of working together with Google, where they are looking to develop and promote ecosystem modeling tools, Chris explains that part of the success is that it is not just one university doing research but a large team of people all over the world working together. Although it takes longer, the result is used by a much wider community.

Author: In the video and the interview, they mention Google has supported them for seven years now.  Looking at their web page looks like Google Summer of Code.

> In relation to the experience of working together with Google, where they are looking to develop and promote ecosystem modeling tools, Chris explains that part of the success is that it is not just one university doing research but a large team of people all over the world working together. Although it takes longer, the result is used by a much wider community.

Reviewer: Ah makes sense, what do you think of this edit? 
```suggestion
Working with Google Summer of Code, which has helped with developing and promoting an ecosystem of modeling tools, Chris explains that part of the success is that it is not just one university doing research but a large team of people all over the world working together. Although it takes longer, the result is used by a much wider community.
```

This allows an individual researcher to run a whole ensemble models. "Just a couple of years ago analyzing multi-models was not something that was accessible to individual researchers." <PI name> explain.  

## The R Universe experience

Their packages are organized into different groups where you can find basic packages, useful tools, and modules that include packages for data management and also packages to do statistical analysis on the inputs and outputs of the models.

One of the most important points of[ having all the packages in an orderly manner in the R-Universe](https://pecanproject.r-universe.dev/builds) is to simplify the work of researchers. The models save them years of work and resources.

In addition, with many people working on the packages, errors are more likely to decrease. Although the whole team knows that the PEcAn project code is not bug-free, they have a better chance of finding and fixing bugs by having more eyes looking at the same thing.

In the following video, the team shows and tells how they organize the packages in the R Universe and what are the strengths of this tool:

> <embebed video>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
